welcome to recap in minutes
this is not just a movie
but a true life event apocalypto
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the story starts in a mesoamerican
forest around the year of 1502
with an aboriginal small maya tribe hunting in
the forest led by the tribe head called flint
sky they have set many traps in the forest they
know the location of each of these a wild boar
comes in contact of one of the traps many sharp
pieces of wood fly towards him impaling it to
death they'd all sit together to cut and share
the meat from the boar and chitchat this tells
their very loving tribe flint skies son jaguar
paw suddenly notices that there is someone behind
him in the bushes he stands there and asks what
they want a group of men emerge from the bushes
they offer the tribe three big fishes from the
recent hunt in return they ask for the permission
to let them cross the grounds peacefully
in return jaguar's father ordered to give
them a piece of boar this is an old rule jaguar's
father permits them after he noticed fear in them
the next moment a lot of people young old nursing
mothers emerge from the bushes to cross the lands
jaguar sees that a lot of them are injured he
asks the reason for it the group leader tells
that they were attacked their land was destroyed
and now they are going to for a new start jaguar
wants to ask more about the attack but his father
stops him jaguar is worried he knows something
is wrong but his father urges him never to allow
fear in him they all return to their village the
atmosphere of their tribe is also very pleasant
at night they surround an elder who tells a story
of a greedy man who gets everything in the world
but never gets satisfied jaguar still worries her
pregnant wife tells him not to worry with their
son beside them they had a lovely moment the
following morning jaguar wakes from the noise of a
barking dog he feels something is wrong he's also
scared because of what happened with other tribe
he encountered the previous day then we are shown
a group of blood thirsty raiders from the central
city of maya standing outside led by a man called
zero wolf the group is hidden behind the trees
at their leader's signal the group comes out of
the trees with flame torches when jaguar spots
the flames he realizes that something is wrong
he wakes up his family then brings them outside
one of the raiders sees them but jaguar kills
him jaguar takes his family to a pit for safety
he starts sending his son and pregnant wife into
the pit using a rope while doing this one of the
raiders spots him he starts running towards jaguar
he quickly drops his kid and wife in the
pit he makes the raider falls with his foot
but before he could fall into the pit jaguar holds
his foot the man sees that his wife and child are
in the pit but before he could tell anyone jaguar
kills him he tells his wife and kid that he has to
go to help his people even though his wife tells
him not to go he promises her that he will return
after saying this he leaves jaguar sees that
most of the men have been captured many are
dead and the village is in chaos there is a very
dangerous raider named middle eye about to kill
jaguar's father jaguar attacks and nearly kill him
before he is captured by zero wolf although middle
eye wants to kill jaguar here but zero wolf tells
him not to he says he needs him jaguar's father is
also a captive here he apologizes to his father
middle eye listens and he comes to know that he
is jaguar's father so he kills him in front of
jaguar to repay the humiliation suffered from him
after he beats jaguar to unconsciousness when he
wakes up he sees that all his tribe has been taken
hostage the surviving adult are tied up and they
are forced to match through the jungle leaving
the children behind in pain and fear jaguar's
wife and some remains in the pit the captives
meet the other tribe who had given them fish the
previous day these raiders had captured them too
now all of them proceed for a long journey where
they have to cross rivers in high mountains
after this horrific journey they reach
the boundary of the raiders tribe
they see a dead body the body makes it clear these
people are suffering from some sort of disease
which spreads from contact here is an infected
little girl they try to push her away but seems
to be possessed she foretells the end of maya
tribe she says the day will get dark a man
will take all of them away from their tribe which
will be the end of their empire they move forward
here is the central city of maya it's shown the
city is suffering from drought and plague for
a very long time with unknown causes and they
sort to their gods to restore back their city
by executing captives to fill the blood
thirst of their gods the captured women
are auctioned and sold but the men are painted
blue and taken ahead to a very crowded pyramid
actually here the priest sacrifices captives
by cutting into the hearts to please their gods
now jaguar is taken for the sacrifice but
before they could kill jaguar solar eclipse
occurs it becomes dark everywhere the priest stops
believing the gods are satisfied with the blood
thanks to that the captives are spared their
life temporarily before taken to another place
it's a long ground there is a cornfield on the
other side which leads to the captives village
all of them are told to run to their forests
here the son of the leader is also present
his son goes to the end of the ground near the
cornfield as a finisher they are made to run in
twos the mayan raiders throw different weapons
at them from behind to kill them as they run
the first two died now it's
jaguar and his partner's turn
jaguar's partner is shot dead by nero jaguar also
gets impaled by an arrow but he is not dead yet
zero wolf's son comes here to finish
jaguar but before he could do so
an injured man draws him back a bit then takes
out a knife and proceeds to finish jaguar
jaguar had broken the tip of the arrow which
impaled him he slashes his throat with that arrow
then runs into the cornfield actually those mayan
raiders were using the captives just for practice
jaguar runs into a swamp pit full of dead bodies
he's terrified by this he soon enters into the
jungle and he suffers the arrow wound jaguar
climbs a tree on the other hand the leader's son
is dead this makes zero wolf furious he now wants
to end jaguar anyhow they all start searching for
him they cross the tree on which jaguar is sitting
but couldn't see him after going a bit further one
of the raiders sees blood on the back of another
raider which isn't his he realizes it is jaguar's
blood who is above a tree they all come back to
find him on the tree jaguar spots the cub of a
panther the cub's mother comes there jaguar starts
running in the direction of the mayans raider
they are also coming towards him now jaguar is
running at full speed the panther is chasing
him before it could attack jaguar a raider who is
chasing after him comes in between them the animal
kills him and jaguar escapes the fellow raiders
considered this as a bad omen regarding to what
the possessed little girl foretold but still zero
wolf ordered the men to continue chasing after
jaguar after a long chase throughout the night a
raider died due to a snake attack the next morning
they still continue the chase after jaguar where
he comes across a dead end there is a waterfall
in front jumping from it might mean death but his
death is behind him too he jumps his fate complies
and he reaches the shore when he looks upwards
he sees that the raiders are watching him jaguar
challenges them because he has entered the forest
where he used to hunt zero wolf kills a raider
that proposed to detour the waterfall the raiders
jump one by one from above causes a raider's death
but the rest come to the shore jaguar runs
but falls in a swamp he somehow escapes his
whole body is covered in mud suddenly his whole
mind becomes numb he decided not fear anymore
and instead fight back when the raiders come there
he uses different techniques to kill everyone
firstly you fight them with a beehive then he
kills one with an improvised frog's poison arrow
at that moment he encounters middle eye who killed
his father jaguar sees a weapon lying there both
of them run towards each other when jaguar reaches
he drags onto his knees to reach the weapon middle
eye misses his strike but jaguar doesn't miss he
kills middle eye instantly then it starts raining
jaguar's wife and son are in the pit the pit
starts filling his wife also goes into labor
jaguar runs to the pit his wife and son tell
him to take them out the remaining three raiders
are still coming behind him which gives him no
opportunity to rescue his family so being chased
by zero wolf jaguar stops while running actually
he saw something zero wolf reaches there and he
shoots him with an arrow it hits him slightly
above his heart he stands and confront him
zero wolf throws out his bow and arrow
takes out his knife with rage he runs
towards jaguar to finish him suddenly he
triggers a trap which killed him instantly
jaguar had to run from here because the
remaining two raiders are coming after him
on the other hand it is shown that the
pit is filling gradually and his wife
gives birth to a baby exhausted jaguar runs to
the ocean shores where he catches the sight of
some enormous ships the two raiders reaches
there but however stop their attack they also
start staring at the ships throwing anchors on
the shore these people in the ships are coming
towards this land in small boats jaguar gets the
chance to runs to his family and saves them all
in the end we are shown that jaguar is in the
forest with his family his wife is watching huge
ships from there she asks jaguar if they should
go there jaguar says that they should go in the
forest so that they can do a new start actually
the people in these ships are europeans they have
come to capture these islands this story is based
on that success thanks for watching please don't
forget to subscribe and turn on the notification
bell to get noticed when a new video is uploaded